# Designing multilayer graphene membranes with well seawater desalination performance using machine learning combined with multi-objective optimization
This is the Github repository for the paper "Designing multilayer graphene membranes with well seawater desalination performance using machine learning combined with multi-objective optimization". Graphene-derived membranes have emerged as a potential solution to the desalination problem due to their tunable ion and molecular sieving capabilities, thin structure, and customizable microstructures. In this research, based on the desalination data of multilayer graphene membranes (MGMs) obtained through high-throughput calculations, a desalination performance prediction model was established. Machine learning results show gap width is a critical factor influencing water flux, while layer spacing and offset significantly affect ions rejection rate. A large gap width, combined with a large offset and a small layer spacing, enables the achievement of excellent desalting performance. Through the application of the Non-dominated Sorting Genetic Algorithm II (NSGA-II), the optimal geometric factors of MGMs were unveiled, which successfully fulfilled the trade-off between water flux and ions rejection rate. Furthermore, the mechanism analysis of the candidate membranes revealed that Na+ ions require the removal of a greater volume of water when passing through the MGMs with smaller layer spacing, resulting in increased energy loss. These findings would be helpful and give some ideas for designing graphene-based membranes and other membranes constructed with 2D materials with excellent separation performance. At the same time, this work would also inspire the design and preparation of other membranes.
## Prerequisites
* Windows, Linux or macOS
* Python 3
* Jupyter Notebook or JupyterLab
* CPU or NVIDIA GPU + CUDA CuDNN
## Code and data
The data file is “data.xlsx”, and the code files for the two machine learning models are “XGBoost.ipynb” and “RF.ipynb” respectively.
